Okay, I'm going to call this meeting to order today for the Platte County Zoning and Planning.
First of all, thank you all for coming, and hopefully we can get through this in a reasonable
time. First thing on the agenda would be a few introductions. We have Jay Collins, Bonnie
Lockhart, Bill Klein, our planner, Laura Bookout, Malcolm Erwin, our county clerk,
myself, Marty Shepherd. With that being said, is there any conflicts of interest
moving forward for today? Okay, no conflicts of interest. We will go
into approving the public hearing rules. Laura, do you want to touch briefly on
those or do you think we need to? I don't think we need to. These are the rules
that we are adopting in the process of adopting into our bylaws that we have
been using at each of the special meetings here. So three-minute
limitations, same deal. Okay, I would entertain a motion to approve the
hearing rules. I have a motion on the floor to approve the hearing rules and second it.
Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor signify by saying aye.
Aye. All opposed? Carried. We'll move right into new business. First item on the agenda,
and the only item on the agenda is a public hearing to accept public comments on proposed
changes to incorporate data centers into existing Platt County land use rules and regulations
dated January 20th, 2026.
Laura, do you want to give a brief rundown?
Sure.
So just a reminder for everybody, the Board of County Commissioners came to me.
I came to the Planning and Zoning Board in reference to incorporating data centers into
our existing rules and regulations.
that is not the intention of this.
The intention is to incorporate data centers
basically so we can end up requiring a special use permit.
If one were to come before us,
they would have to apply for a special use permit
for approval.
So basically it's, if you look at the table of contents,
it would affect what I advertised,
which I originally thought,
and sort of the Board of County Commissioners,
just basically adding a definition for it,
and then incorporating it into commercial classifications
of chapter six, industrial classification of chapter seven,
and ranching agricultural and mining in chapter eight.
After rereading some things and working on some other files,
it came to my attention very recently, like yesterday,
that we also should look at chapter three, Malcolm,
to pull the original rules and regulations, or active rules and regulations for Chapter
3 up. Sorry. It's on, and then page 16. And I'll, I'll address that later, but I believe
that Chapter 3 there's on page 16 there is a sentence that might need to be taken out
of altogether, the rules and regulations. And the, I'll wait until Malcolm gets that going.
But in the meantime, I had provided,
so the only thing that was published, I had an example,
I hadn't had time to work on a proposed anything
until very recently, but I did come up,
we want some kind of generic data center definition,
not we don't want to, we want all data centers,
regardless of size and type,
to have to apply for a special use permit.
For example, we just approved the Board of County Commissioners on Tuesday just approved
the special use permit for 5.9, which is technically a data center facility for fiber optics.
So we want a generic all-encompassing definition.
I provided some examples for that.
And then, okay, Malcolm's there.
Oh, we'll just keep rolling with the definitions.
So I don't know, do you wanna just start
with the definitions first and then we'll roll
and then I'll move into the chapter six, seven,
and then Malcolm will end with that chapter three, I think.
Okay, does that work?
I think that works.
Okay, great.
So right now we'll just start with the table of contents,
list and at this I take it everybody has that table that's here has had an
opportunity to pick it up I think it's on the table over there is no no table
no the in this no the example was online and that's the example not the proposed
so they knew what areas we were looking for Malcolm will have it on the screen
for everybody okay Malcolm if you want to start at the top chapter 1 general
And at this time too, if you would like to make a comment on anything that we're going
over, just raise your hand.
I believe the same rules apply.
Come up, sign up, come to the podium, state your name, three minutes, and we'll move on.
So the first item that I have was just one that you have highlighted, this Chapter 2
definition since the meaning of the term.
So other than that, it's pretty simple.
Okay.
Moving into Chapter 3, any discussion on just the table of contents, any verbiage, anything
I don't think there is any.
We're going to move on to page five.
This is where we are incorporating the terminology data center, chapter six,
under class three, commercial classification.
And then we're going down to chapter seven, apical to industrial classification.
there or the terminology data center anyway.
And then we're going to chapter eight for RAM,
ranching and agriculture and mining classification.
And we're going to add the verbiage of the data center
in there as well.
From there on, we go to nine, 10, 11, 12 or nine, 10, 11.
Pretty much so what we have intact right now.
Chapter 12, same thing, that whole page, Malcolm, are you,
I can't see what you're doing, you're good.
Pretty well stays the same on that page, which would be page 7.
Page 8, same thing, wind energy,
siting facilities, not changing anything there.
And we get into page 14.
And I don't know, how do you want, you want me to read this?
You want to read this?
Tell me what you're thinking.
Whichever way you want to do.
So what I have, I have one on page 14.
I have one, two, three, four versions of a generic definition of data center.
And then unfortunately on the next page that is not highlighted, there's an additional
one, two, three, four, five potential definitions right there, Malcolm, yeah, for data center
So the basic, the general, like a physical location, so I mean it's really up for discussion.
Do we want to meld some of these?
Do we want to adopt just one of the general definitions?
Again, the point is to have it a general all-encompassing, not specifically to a large data center is
what's hot and topic in the news right now.
Can everybody out there see the things
that she's talking about?
Can you see them up on the screen?
All right, this time we'll give it a little time
for everybody to read those
and then we'll come back and discuss.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, at this time I will open it up to public comment on what you might like to see in this
definition or if any of these are compatible if there anyone would like to
comment any public comment on the definition of a data center.
Just like last time Milo come up sign in stand at the podium.
Yeah, I'm going to let you speak unless we're going to hear the same thing 10 times and
know we're going to move on.
But as we have different sections, yes, I'll let everybody once again try if we can get
through it.
So, I think that the first definition that was on the previous page that we were looking
if Malcolm can pull that up again.
Yeah, right there at the top.
A fiscal facility or building that has networked computer
servers, data storage drives, and IT infrastructure used
to store, process, and share digital information is probably
the best bet, and I think that was a good definition to come
up with it.
That's all I wanted to say.
Thank you.
Thank you, Milo.
Anyone else?
Just a quick reminder too, if you'd please put your cell phones on silence.
And I forgot one other thing that I need to touch base on.
If anybody has to use the restroom, the door directly to the north is the doors that the
county would like us to use to stay out of the way of the firemen.
So anytime you need to go outside, you can go outside to the right, do what you need
to do.
Obviously not go to the bathroom, but if you need to leave, go out that way.
If you're going to the bathroom, use the doors to the north and go to the bathroom.
Okay, you guys got my packet.
Did you guys, everyone of you guys, okay, just make sure.
There's a couple of things that are not mentioned
in here before you guys start doing all this.
There is a move to actually try and put these guys
into data centers into military status
to being a military base.
And when you like sell a building, like these guys are
going to try and do, they're going to try and build this place
and you're going to make agreements with them.
Those no longer fall in place when they're given over to like a military contract or a military stuff is done there.
Eric Prince is also going to be putting security around all these places.
I don't know if you guys have seen that yet or done any research on it.
These things will not apply.
They can do whatever they want to do.
Not to mention that the data that you guys are getting has been skewed.
We have like site layer one here or the site layer four. There is a structure above them. They made a
quote saying they are not a small, they're a small corporation kind of thing or whatever. They're not.
There's air layer. Hey Josh. Yeah. I'm tracking what you're saying but right now we need to stay on
point. We're talking about the definition of a data center. That's it. Okay. Good, bad, and different.
All we're needing is if you like a definition that we like,
if you have on this sheet, great.
If you don't, give us a definition in which you would like.
What I am saying is that before you guys make a decision
on any of these, I think a little bit more research needs
to be done, you know.
There's more aspects to this.
Like, for example, you guys already have a data center
there that wasn't quoted as a data center,
but you guys have no rules and regulations in place.
You have none whatsoever.
and you're not only are they built one but they're adding on to it and you guys had no idea how they're powering this thing or how
Much is being used
That's all I have to say
Anyone else any public comment on a data center definition
Catherine Stevens
Okay.
Catherine Stevens, I think that the simplest definition, that very first one, is probably
the best, the physical facility, the same one that Milo thought was good.
I think the simpler the better.
Thank you, Catherine.
Anyone else?
Maybe to speed this up a little bit, if you want to speak, come up and get ready to sign
in and I won't, none of us will think you're being rude. Just get ready so we can kind
of keep rolling. I just think when you get ready to define
that, I'm sorry, Amy Bates. Thank you. Maybe at the beginning, definition as described
but not limited to the definition. It gives a little leeway there for legality. Data center
as defined, but not limited to. Would be my suggestion. Thanks.
Hang on before you can walk away and you're talking just add that if if I may I'm not trying to put words your mouth
I don't know
Would you put that right in that first one that Milo and Catherine or?
Which definition did you like? I think keeping it simple just as Milo and Catherine said I like the first one
but I like I would like it to say data center as
Defined but not limited to a physical facility
Thank you.
You bet.
Jill Kaufmann, I have a procedural aspect that I want to bring up. It's nothing new.
On your Title 14, excuse me, 614.403, Section B, I'm going to read it.
It says a member of the public is not required as condition of attendance at any meeting to register his name,
to supply information to complete a questionnaire or to fill other conditional proceedings
to this attendance.
A person seeking recognition at the meeting may be required to give his name and affiliation.
I'm Jill Kaufman from Platt County.
And you're number two on your rules.
It breaches the contract and the statute because the statute does not say must sign in.
And talking with the Office of Civil Rights,
they say statute is not overruled by rules of the county.
Just bringing you aware of it, thank you.
Thanks Jill.
Hang on one second.
We need you to sign in if you would please Jill.
I guess from this point on I'm not gonna allow you
to speak, so thank you.
Hello, Leticia Lane. I just had a quick comment on the definition, just the simpler the better,
the first one is really good. I think when you add so much more in those other definitions,
it actually creates more loopholes, if you know what I mean. If you know what I mean by that,
Yeah, Rick Cronk, Chuglar, Wyoming.
It seems more appropriate to me to call it a Daddus complex or prison.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Morton Tillman, Wheatland, Wyoming.
I propose we change the name from data center to control center because this is what these
things are.
They're going to control everything you do, the way you think, who you talk to.
They're going to spy on you.
This is what they are.
They're not data centers.
They're control centers.
Thank you.
Thanks, Mort.
Anyone else?
Anyone else? Any public comment?
Okay, at this point I'll close it to public comment,
bring it before the board for further discussion.
J. Collins, I do think simpler is better. I don't think we have to have something nailed
down that's going to be used forever. I think this document is changeable, just like every
document we have. So if we make a mistake, or we can always come back and correct it.
So I'm good with using the simpler, the first definition of a data center. I'm good with
that. I have a question on that. I like the first one as well but I did like as
defined but not limited to. I like that verbiage. Any any further board
discussion. I would entertain a motion. We can do this one chapter at a time motion.
It's probably clearer. Malcolm, thought? Clear?
Yeah, I would just keep track of your changes as you go and then just clearly explain at
the end what those changes would be and make a motion at the end.
Yep.
Yep, I got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
We're going to move on.
Yep.
Okay.
The next chapter is Chapter 6, Incorporating Data Centers.
And I will be honest with you, the 6, 7, and 8 are what I came up with is really, I think,
I do want to stop Malcolm right there.
Regarding chapter 6 while we were in it,
I don't know if we can or you want to,
but I did highlight that first sentence in 6-5-10 purpose.
That was to make it cohesive with the purpose in industrial.
A little more uniform.
I don't know if you want to look at that.
Then on page 26 the next page down would be to include data centers required to go through special use permitting process as part of allowed uses.
Of course, that's like one of the longest lists we have and then also and 65030 off-street parking requirements
to add data centers as one of the
26-mile
Anyway to add data centers into the off-street parking requirements
What I'm kind of seeing is is they do require special parking. I I don't know exactly
it a lot. But if that requirement was not in there, then that might possibly be something
that they would not have to submit in a special use permit in their site plan. That's the
only reason I put that in there. And then 27 came up. One, all, just the new
location of section 610-000 data centers. First point, all data centers are required
required to go through the special use permitting process, see Chapter 3.
The next bullet point data centers may require additional setback requirements and minimum
lot size requirements and or may be required to be rezoned to industrial.
Another bullet point, any power generation associated with the data center is required
to obtain its own special use permit.
I know we had heard that in public and had talked about it ourselves and I think that's
a good point to make sure that the energy production,
which is now a hot topic,
it's the power for a data center campuses,
to require that to be its own special use permit,
not to wrap it into a data center permit.
And then any qualifying application must first obtain
the Wyoming Department of Energy Quality,
Industrial Citing Division's jurisdiction exemption letter,
or their permit prior to the first plan or their Wyoming DEQ ISC permit
There are two types of permits prior to the first planning and zoning Commission meeting
Everybody has shown a lot of interest
For us to somehow incorporate a checks and balances between the county
Requiring an entity to go through ISC
don't have the authority to require them to go through the ISC. The ISC is mandated by the state as we all know and there are
certain
Triggered dollar amounts and and types of businesses that are required to go through there
My understanding is is every data center
Will qualify for the dollar amount to have to get this letter of exemption
and jurisdictional exemption letter.
So they're required to at least submit some paperwork
to ISC and some data centers maybe in the future
will qualify to go through ISC.
If they don't do industrial
and they just wanna keep the commercial,
then yes, they're gonna have to get an ISC permit.
So that's the quick way I came up with addressing that.
I think it's important.
It does help the county
with the whole process.
And to know that they've laid eyes on it
is a little, makes me feel a little better.
I don't know, I'm sure it makes everybody feel a little better.
So those are the only adjustments for the commercial.
And like I said, these are almost identical
in the industrial and the RAM.
The only thing I took out is the second bullet point
is required to be rezoned to industrial.
that was not necessary to put in the industrial zoned area but that's it
thanks
okay at this time I'll open it up to public comment again for kind of
briefly what we just touched on if there's any public comment hi Katherine
down at the ISD at their meeting a couple weeks ago.
I specifically asked if data centers had to go through the process that wind farms and
all that, and they don't.
So we're on our own.
It doesn't really matter the size.
So it's the dollar amount of the investment.
If it reaches, I think, the dollar amount is 280 or 290 million in change, whatever.
They will have they're required to apply for a jurisdictional exemption letter
There is something it's not going through the ISC 12 month 18 month process. There's two permits they can go for
The jurisdictional exemption letter is one of them and then that
Also gives the county a heads up. Hey, they did get a pass. So it's
Yeah, okay. It's a little the other two permits at ISC
So the exemption one exemption permit and then the regular permit got it. Yeah
They don't go through where they have citizen parties, they have the 19 state agencies,
all of that, because that's what I was, you know, I mean, it's still a rubber stamp.
That's what it's, they've always said yes, but it's kind of the appearance of more protection,
so, but they don't even.
Correct, yeah.
Yeah, the jurisdiction exemption letter, Catherine's correct, they do not go through, it's not
the full process where they go through all the state agencies.
I have a question for you Laura. I'm just trying to be courteous of our people
that want to talk. Do you want them, once they've signed in, do they need to sign
in every time and wish they want to speak or can they, once they're signed in
they're good. What do you want? Once they're signed in they're good. That's
fine. Okay. Just so everybody's on the same page.
Listen to howchins for myself.
So I want clarification from Laura on the exemption letter.
That is not a permit.
That is an exemption letter, correct?
It's, yes.
It's called a permit.
There's two permits they apply for.
One ends up with the ISE quote unquote permit.
The other one ends up with an exemption letter.
But they're called permit applications.
So the exemption, I would assume, you said they have laid eyes on it, but they in no
way would have any agency oversight as there is in the ISD process, correct?
I am not with the ISC.
I just know the generic general information.
So if you wanted to get how much they go through and how much the application is I believe you can look at the applications online
The permit applications. I believe they're online. I haven't looked at them because they're not something in my jurisdiction
There's just everybody's been talking about as I mentioned somehow having the county incorporate ISC
This is the way that I thought maybe we could get some kind of at least they get a look at it
So if you want details on the ISC, I recommend go to their website
But you've already done that right
Because you know about these two
My research is not applicable to
Incorporating more than just that general information. So I don't I don't
We know that the data centers
Have not ever been in front of the ISD. We know that
Okay, I mean Cheyenne that's an example. Okay, so my concern is we need a substitute for those
Regulations to protect the county we're not protected environmentally. We're not protected a lot of ways
So I think it would be a good idea to somehow bring those regulations into this into the county
Regulations to somehow protect the county
Otherwise, it's a free-for-all
Thank you.
It's my understanding, just because they don't go to the industrial siting council, they still have to have, they still go through the different agencies.
And as this board, we can set our rules, our conditions for the rules on their permit to make sure that they follow all the steps as if they were going through the industrial siting council.
So why we're here today if I if you think they need to go to game and fish
That's what we're that's gonna be a condition not here today, but as we go forward
This board the county commissioners the clerk the planner
We're going to hopefully implement rules that make them follow the guidelines that we want not necessarily what industrial siting wants what we want
Fire away Milo
All I was going to say is I think that the second point on Section 6.10.000 data centers
should be changed to a mandatory setback requirement because having a word may in there, it's essentially
useless if you guys don't know what I'm saying with that.
It doesn't really require anyone to do anything.
And so unless it's changed to will or must or something like that some sort of mandatory word
then it's not going to be
Useful at all there, you know
And I think I can answer that question
Depending on the location and proximity of different things that leaves it at the board's discretion to
May require additional setbacks if we leave it blanket as for one
It's a blanket policy set for everything
What I was actually getting at is,
what if the board could put in, say,
a one-mile setback or a half-mile setback
or a one-and-a-half-mile setback
as mandatory for data centers?
Is that in your power, potentially?
I would say it depends on where it is
and the proximity of everything else around it, Milo.
That's why I think we're wanting to have some flexibility.
Just to me, it's not a one-size-fits-all.
Yeah, but...
If you put in a one mile setback then it would be a one mile setback for anything right like
no matter what location and I
Think that I think that that would be the most fair and equitable decision that you guys can make because then it would treat all
citizens in all locales in the county
Equally, thank you. Can I enter? Thank you. All right. Let me just interject. Sorry
So we are incorporating into existing rules and regulations and we already have existing
requirements in our commercial so what so we're addressing what's in this chapter so on
The page before that page 26 the existing setback requirement for commercially zoned
Projects is all permanent buildings shall be set back at least 30 feet from the public roadway easements or right-of-ways and 10 feet from adjacent property
owners
So my thought was including data centers may require additional set requirements and also
and the minimum size
Has to do only with the data and the requirements that we have in the current rules and regulations
That's and then on to what chairman Marty said
Okay, so then at some later point in this meeting. Will we be able to potentially modify those regulations for the setbacks?
Specifically for data. I don't think the public will but I think the board will be
public input, of course.
Okay, thank you.

Just one quick thing I was looking at,
and I read through the proposed changes,
I didn't read through them again today if she put anything,
but when they were talking about,
she had a thing in there that talked about
jurisdiction. Just a thought on that 6.10 was that you could put something like the special use permit
requirement applies regardless of how the property is subdivided or platted including the subdivision
into an industrial park because we don't monitor those large acreages. So if it was already
subdivided it may not be here if they're going to make a small scale one. And then the other thing
like the DEQ and the industrial siting,
that's good to have in there,
but I was also looking at maybe putting
any subsequent expansion of an approved data center server
capacity power draw, however in depth you wanted to go,
or just at all, beyond what was reviewed
in the original special use permit,
would require a new or amended special use permit.
That way they don't get their special use permit,
And then and maybe you want to put that in their special use permit requirements
but if you add it into these requirements then if
If not if you forgot or if something changed or maybe we missed it on a special use permit
It would be in the requirements for data centers anyways
Kayla mantle, sorry, I thought I did how about oh I got parts of what you said take five minutes to write it down
Is that?
Yeah, no, that's fine. I can do that. Think about what you said there kind of put it into a form that is simpler
Yep, and maybe what you think and where it might be added. Okay. Yeah
I mean, I think it could just go right under the six point one and it would just be you would put it right under the
The any qualifying application must first obtain. Yeah, I would I would just put it under as another bullet point that just says that
any change to their
original special use permit would have to get a subsequent special use permit.
And then the larger acreage one for the industrial park is what worries me
because say this one was zoned an industrial park and there was no data
center involved and then we don't monitor those large acreages like we do
you know a simple subdivision and so I think that leaves a gap maybe where they
can say well it's a large acreage subdivision and it could just fall
through the cracks. So I think if we just tighten that up a little bit then that might be helpful.
Thank you.
I think there's some things that need to be implemented as well. The data that was given on site layer four this small little square inside that big old huge thing all the numbers that are given for usage and everything else in the permit.
they want to start with that piece. And once they don't zone that industrial
right like you guys have, they're gonna build on and add more and more. I think
that there needs to be special permits for every time they want to expand the
land or use anything more that it needs to be, it needs to be come before you
guys and needs to be talked to the community about it before they can just
do it. Not to mention, not to mention that we need before they can do all that, I think
that our own people outside, they should be funding it with the permits that they're paying
for for us to do our own studies, to hire our own people, not the fox watching the hen
house. You know what I mean? Of course they're going to put their people in there and doing
whatever studies they want to make it sound good, we need our own people, outside people.
The information could be skewed from these companies. Trust me, they have lots of money
out here already skewing things already. So I think it'd be important for us before they
try to make any more expansions and that industrial zoning, that they got to come to the people,
they got to discuss it before everybody, and we got to vote on it. Doesn't mean they can
go out there and just turn that whole place into some industrial park and
eventually the numbers that you're giving you on that is times you know 50
or times a thousand. Josh you don't have to leave but that's that's exactly what
we did the last meeting. Anything they do on that property they come to us for a
special use permit we're going to know. That's why I think if you were here I
made the comment that's probably the most restricted piece of property in
of Black County today.
That's what we're trying to accomplish
is put some rules and protection
for the citizens of Black County.
I still think it needs to go before the people.
Listen, nothing gets you guys,
but I don't think all your decisions are good
and I think the people need to know about it.
You know, like everything's being done in secret.
For example, I just FOIA'd some information from Malcolm.
There's actually no interaction between you,
between all these companies, that's amazing.
The fact that there is no traceable data
for your guys' interactions between people is amazing.
There should be traceable.
Josh, we're gonna stop that there,
but I can assure you there's no interactive
between me and a data center, none.

That's not my job.
And at this point, we're done.
Thank you, sit down, we're gonna move on.
Oh, of course you don't wanna hear about that.
That's not what we're here for.
down. We're done. Okay. Thank you. We still want to see your guys your permit
that that that nullifies you from setting yourself out on that site layer
for deal. That's your family member by the way. You said you had something that
exempts you. We'd like to see that. I had a letter from the county attorney. I'm
sure we can make that. I'm sure we can make that public for you.
along with the power generation, all those kind of things.
I just have a question.
A lot of them tell you to bring your own and all that kind of thing,
but they're going to be using at least some supplemental electricity
and then gas and water.
My question is whether we can add into the regulations
that data centers publish publicly,
you know water gas and electric usage on some
Monthly
semiannually or otherwise basis so that we know it's a big issue with a lot of people so we could see those and
For accountability transparency type reasons
Okay. Thank you. Thanks
Any other public comment on this section that we're addressing right now
Okay, any other public comment?
At this time I'll close it to public comment, bring it before the board for further discussion
on this section.
I'm going to read what Kayla wrote or tried to try to read it a special use permit requirement
applies to regardless of how the property is subdivided or platted, including subdivision
into an industrial park and regardless of the term used to describe the use or any application
plat or lease.
The second one she wrote was any subsequent expansion of an improved data center, server
capacity, power draw, or cooling infrastructure beyond what was reviewed in the original SUP
requires also or an amended special use permit.
Kayla, where are you at?
And you were wanting to add some form of that verbiage on the end of section 6.1?
I'll pass this down.
You guys can read it.
I mean, we can adopt it or use it, not use it,
just board's discussion.
Okay, can I ask you another question?
On the comments you wrote, my question would also be the same one Bonnie had.
Regardless of the acreage, we need to add that into,
I think you're number two,
because if it's larger than 35 acres,
they still need a special use permit,
but it's a lot harder for them,
for us, for the county to know what's going on.
So if we could add, in my opinion,
a form of acreage in there.
I mean, I'm open for my, what do you guys think?
About what? Sorry. Microphones, please.
Bonnie, microphone. Your favorite, please.
I thought you had a note somewhere about the large acre parcels that we don't somewhere.
That was in the rezone.
We talked about that.
So yes, our county does not monitor large acre parcels.
They are.
It's a statutory.
have to go by state statute.
So I mean, you definitely could include an acreage,
but if you want to.
But regardless, just like you said,
if somebody is going to do a power generation,
any kind of data center, they have
to get a special use permit.
So I mean, you could have it on 5,344 acres,
and you're going to have to get a special use permit.
I think the main thing there that I want,
and I would say everybody in our county
No matter what we need to put the word out on our website and we need a special use permit
Whether it's 10 acres or whether it's 200 acres
correct, and that's
Yeah by limiting by I think by stating acreage on here
You're now you're
Now you're getting a little
In a gray area Malcolm any thoughts on that. Will you read the condition again that you're
Considering
Okay any subsequent expansion of an approved data center
centers server capacity
Powerdraw or cooling infrastructure beyond what was reviewed in the original SUP
requires a new or amended SUP
I'll bring this and then was there a part about
industrial park
No, that was in the first comment that she wrote okay what read that one a special use permit
requirement applies regardless of how the property is subdivided or
platted
flat or lease.
Gentlemen microphones please.

Sorry.
So let me just interact.
So the number the first bullet point up there all data centers are required to go through
the special use permitting process.
Do you need yeah, I don't know if you want to
Specify
Gridges and subdivisions at that point. It doesn't matter. I mean like
The data center that could go in the town of Wheatland
Inside the town is gonna require a special use permit. Well, okay, that's a bad example
But say say that the house across the street, which is in the county
Somebody buys that 40 30 20 whatever acres they're gonna have to get a special use permit
matter what the size of the land is for a data center, even if it's a small data center
related to, you know, fiber optics.
So what you're saying, lawyers, we've already got that covered in the first one, pretty
much.
I would think so.

Malcolm thinks so, too.
On the first one, it's just like blanket all data centers are required to go through the
special use permit.
permit. Her second bullet point, Kayla's second bullet point, I like that a lot. It would
be something that would, to me, would go on a special use permit as a condition, but having
it in something like that in the rules and regulations, they know up front that, hey,
you're going to have to get another permit if you want to do something. I like that.
And that's what you guys decided earlier is when we when you first read it I passed it down the way number two is what?
Everybody's favorite was
Okay, my only suggestion in there instead of using the word reviewed I would say approved
Because they could have asked for one thing and then the special use permit authorized
Other things so just to make it clear that they're approved special use permit should they deviate?
If site layer four comes in and they build this and they get their special use permit
and follow all their rules and we have it in their regulations and then say they sell
and this person says, oh, we've already got everything and then all of a sudden they want
to do some quote unquote upgrades and they want to put better power in or something and
come in and get a special use permit.
So I think the more we can put it in the rules,
I think it should go on their special use permit,
but I'm just trying to protect us from things in the future.
If they don't follow or they don't get
a new special use permit, which they're supposed to do,
but we know how that goes sometimes,
then if it's in our rules and regulations,
they also know, hey, you have to go in and get this.
Just kind of double dipping it.
that way. This is kind of what happened on the last data center that we just approved last time.
This is what we kind of had happen. We use this as a condition on the data center that we just
approved, correct? More or less, yeah. So basically we're just putting it in the rules
So we don't miss it as a condition as they get to approving them.
Agree.
I'm good with just doing number two.
I have a question real quick.
Who's going to enforce this?
What role or what job are we going to be creating to enforce this?
Well, hopefully, Josh, it's just like every other person in this country.
Hopefully they have enough fortitude and moxie and goodwill about them that they play by
the rules.
Well, I know that we know we're not we're not we're not an enforcement agency what I'm asking as as as the citizen here is
Who's gonna enforce it who's gonna go check them to make sure that they're they're falling within the rules
We'll figure it out
You can't be a bully in this situation. We're asking you questions answer them Josh. We're done. Thank you
No, we'll just do this at the end
Just like we did
Can I make a formatting suggestion I think you've moved on past that one so
At suggestion that section six dot zero five dot zero two zero the last
One I think it could get confusing
So in every other section that has special use permit uses it's subsection 0 3 0.
So my suggestion would be created 0 3 0 would be special use permit uses whatever it says in the other sections and just renumber off street parking is 0 8 0.
So then you would move data center into special use category.
So if you look at all the other areas of your code when you're saying it's an allowed use with a special use permit it's got a special section to make it clear it's not just automatically allowed.
And so just a small formatting thing to be consistent throughout the code.
And I do think you have a decision point tell me if I'm wrong but I think you have a decision point on what the off street parking requirements are or those determined on a case by case basis.
Laura, what was your intent on the off-street parking?
I mean, basically, when I went and toured the couple that I toured, all the parking's
in-house.
I wouldn't call it off-street, but...
Okay.
I have not seen one.
It's in the campus.
Gotcha.
So it was like, okay, I was just looking at retail, theaters, rental, restaurants, maybe it's not necessary.
Maybe you're not going to get enough public.
Maybe it's, yeah, it may not need to be in there for that.
And I love Malcolm's thought on the formatting, changing it to be more cohesive with the other chapters.
Okay, thank you. Malcolm, do you want, I know you said to do these motions at the end, but
do you want to do them by chapters so we don't forget where we are? And if I can't read my
writing the scribbles that Kayla wrote down or...
That, it is totally up to you all, however you'd like to run it.
And what did she say and and I don't I maybe I should clarify so I don't think you need a motion on the table of contents
because
That's just a guide for what your sections are
And so as you go through and work sections like if your motion in section six is to move
off street parking to a new subsection zero eight zero and
Rename zero three zero is allowed uses
uses allowed with special use permit, that would just be part of your motion. And then
the table of contents would be updated accordingly. However you want to operate it.
Can't we just go through and approve like Section 6?
Chapter 6.
Chapter 6.

with the changes that we've made just right now and then move on to seven. So I would
move that we adopt the changes that we have made as well as adding that one Caleb come
up with for chapter six.
Were you interested in also doing the formatting change?
Yes.
Okay.
All the changes that we talked about.
Okay.
Do you still want to incorporate all four of those?
Yes.
I'll second that.
Oh, sorry.
Before I second it, did you want to delete the data centers out of the parking?
It's not going to hurt anything being in there.
Okay.
Yeah, it's not going to hurt anything.
All right.
It's there again.
It's a safeguard for us going forward.
if such a thing arises where they're not on campus,
we've still got something to fall back on.
If we take it out, I'd say we leave that.
Could I suggest on that then
because it's just kind of hanging out there.
It doesn't tell you what the requirement is.
So data centers determined on it
as a condition of the special use permit.
Something along those lines to let people know
how the number of parking spaces are figured
is it's gonna be taken on a case by case basis
through the special use permit process.
So they'll know they have to have off-street parking,
but the number of spaces will be determined
by the commission.
So what are you recommending, Woody?
Because if I read it right now,
street parking requirement is.
So data centers subject to conditions
of special use permit.
Okay.
I have a motion on the floor
and seconded to approve chapter six
with the second,
Any subsequent expansion of an approved data center, server capacity, power draw or cooling
infrastructure beyond what was approved, we're going to change that word from reviewed to
approved, and the original SUP requires a new or amended SUP.
And then reformatting the data center in the commercial classification for the right numbers.
and then to determine off-street parking subject to the time and size of the project.
Or subject to conditions in the special use permit.
Who said what there? I missed it.
For the parking, Malcolm correct me if I'm wrong, data centers subject to
conditions and special use permit. Right. Yeah I could get behind that.
Subject to the conditions in the special use permit. Malcolm can you read that
back in some form? On just the off-street parking portion? No, just kind of what
the motion was or Laura. Yeah, that'd be Laura. She's the minute taker for this meeting.
Yeah. Okay. So I have Bill did it first and Jay seconded that we are going to make the
changes on the first page of chapter 6. We're going to add data centers for 6.10.000 that
that we are going to change on the same page
under 60510 purpose, make it uniform
so the verbiage will read for the first sentence there.
These regulations specify minimum requirements
for development of class three land
to allow for firefighting capacity,
good circulation, parking, and a competitive living
and working environment, et cetera.
On the second page, we are going to remove
data centers from the allowed uses and make its own section under section 7 0 5 0 3 0
Called
Uses allowed with a special use permit including but not limited to and then we will say data centers
Then we will amend section six five zero three zero off-site parking requirements to read section six zero five
5 0 8 0 off street parking sections and add data centers dot-dot subject to conditions and special use permits and on the last page
we will
Add the for presented which is section 6 10 0 0 0 data centers
All data centers are required to go through the special use permitting process see chapter 3
Second point, data centers may require additional setback requirements and minimum lot size requirements and or may be required to be rezoned to industrial.
Number three, any power generation associated with the data center is required to obtain its own special use permit.
Number four, any qualifying application must first obtain Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality Industrial Siding Division's jurisdiction exemption letter.
or the WIDQ-ISE permit prior to the first planning and zoning meeting and number 5,
I do not have Kayla's verbiage in front of me if you wouldn't mind reading that.
Any subsequent expansion of an approved data center, server capacity, power draw or cooling
infrastructure beyond what was approved in the original S.U.P. requires a new or amended
S.U.P.
That's all.

And I have a motion that it's on the floor.
It's been seconded.
Any further discussion?
Hearing none, all those in favor signify by saying aye.
Aye.
Carried.
I'm going to come grab that real quick so I don't lose that Kayla's paper.
And can we go ahead and go back to Chapter 2 and get that voted on for the definition,
please?
Pretty please.
Pretty please.
You didn't hear me?
Oh, sorry.
Could we go back to Chapter 2 if we're going to approve that definition?
Might as well do that too real quick and then we can not have to backtrack.
So I so move that we accept the first definition.
Do you want me to read it again?
Okay.
Yeah, perfect.
A physical facility or building that houses network computer servers, data storage devices,
IT infrastructure used to store, process, and share digital information as defined but
not limited to?
Put the as defined but not limited to in the front data centers and then dot as defined
but not limited to physical.
Amy made Amy made I
Have a motion on the floor to approve that
Any further discussion
Hearing none all those in favor signify by saying aye aye carried
We're going to move into Chapter 7.
Okay.
Chapter 7.
Again, on the first page, page 28, some uniformity adding 7, 0, 5, 0, 5, 0 addresses.
then correcting the numbering right below it, it should be 705-060 minimum, adding data
centers at 710-000.
And the other thing on that page, I would like to remove the note right below section
7 0 5 0 3 0 allowed uses of special use permits including but not limited to the note I
proposed to remove is
in brackets note
projects in existing industrial districts
Which are underway prior to adoption of these regulations do not require a special use permit to development to develop
I would like to remove that note
Then the other
Page 22 is data centers and it says see section 7.10.000 for details.
Then the addressing is written out section 705050 addresses any buildings shall be clearly
numbered so that postal emergency and police services can easily identify them correcting
the numbering for the section for 7.05060.
In there I also found that we were missing under that the third bullet point down requirements
of federal AND was missing.
So we want to have a copy of all approved permits needed to meet the requirements of
federal and Wyoming state agencies for their review of proposed development.
and Federal and AND were not in there before.
The next page at the top under that same area, a vicinity map showing distance from current
habitable structures within one mile was not specified further below in that same section.
Measures to be employed for ground and surface water protection, including secondary containment
applicable
Looking to add that and then the other one would be notification to property owners
Sell include those within one mile radius of the properties boundaries
Then we go down to the next bullet point and then again add the applicant is
Responsible to meet all permitting requirements of federal and Wyoming blah blah blah
page 31 adding the data centers
This verbiage is slightly different because we are in the industrial classification.
So I did remove that off of the second bullet point that we just went through.
So as it reads section 7.10.000 data centers, first point, all data centers are required
required to go through the special use permitting process,
see chapter three.
Next bullet point, data centers may require
additional setback requirements
and minimum lot size requirements.
Number three, any power generation associated
with the data center is required to obtain
its own special use permit.
Number four, any qualifying application
must first obtain Wyoming, et cetera,
literally verbatim from the other one.
And based upon what we just approved,
What was just approved on the commercial and the suggestion that Kayla had had I would like to add
Keep it uniform. So the only thing that would change on that back section would be removed and in dust in the industrial
Zoning because we are actually in the industrial zoning chapter. That's why that was removed there
At this time I'll open up to public comment on this section
Thank you.
I think it's the third bullet down.
Please say your name, Lucinda.
Lucinda Houchins for myself.
I think it says any power generation associated with the data center is required to obtain its own special use permit.
So does the county permit, let's say they do solar, do you guys permit that? Does the county permit
that or does that go to DEQ? Does wind go to DEQ? Does geothermal go to DEQ? I think just the
on that one should be any power generation associated
may have to go to the DEQ
instead of your special use permit.
Can you special use permit power?
Or is that, do you understand my question?
I see clarification on that, thank you.
Don't leave because I have a question.
So are you thinking you want us to add
generation associated with the data center is required to obtain its only
yes special use permit and DEQ permit tell me what you tell me what you want
or what you're what you're getting at. My understanding is that power generation
is only permitted through the DEQ that the county doesn't do that. Is that your
Think by us putting it in our regulations though there again
It gives us a little more power to hopefully try and regulate what's going on on your neighbor's property or your property or my property
Or Bill's property I?
Think it's a safeguard
So what's going to happen when
For instance, let's say site layer four wants to do gas generators. Let's just imagine that and
And we know the amount is over a certain amount it would qualify for state
DEQ oversight
But if you have here well you just have to get a special use permit from the county I
Think it's just making sure that we know what's going on. They're still gonna have to get a permit from the DEQ Lucinda
We're not circumventing that stage
Okay, so what's your special use you're gonna do you have a special use permit then for the power
any power generation
Okay, just so we know what's going on on the property. That's it
But they would first have to go to the state to go through that process correct, I'm sure they will
Okay, we just want to know we want to be involved
I know but it just sounds like all they have to do here is get a special use permit
I'm saying so that they're exempted from going to the DQ. That's all I'm saying
Our rules can be stronger than the state but they can be no more relaxed
So if they have if the state requires them to do X
They're required to do X if we want to make them do X Y and Z
That's what we can make them do we can't make them we can't circumvent the state
If if the state says you have to get a DQ permit
That's what they have to do if we want deq permit plus the special you permit. That's what we can do. Gotcha
Thank you. We can't tell them to be any less
Good. Thanks Marty maybe a
suggestion to
Alleviate Lucinda's concern because I see what she's getting at that it could read like the only thing we're going to require is that
through this special use permit process
One of the conditions would be federal and state permits, but what you could do is in that bullet point
power generation associated with the data center is required to obtain its own special
use permit, and any federal and state permits as required by law.
Oh, Malcolm, can you go to page 30 in that?
And that way, maybe it provides that specificity.
Lucinda, would that help you out?
Oh, Mark, wait.
If everybody looks on the screen at page 30, if you look at the bullet point, the continuance
Permit for industrial uses shall be subject to but not limited to the following conditions
I didn't there I it's already in there the applicant is responsible to meet all permitting requirements of federal
I wanted to add that in because it was missing and
Wyoming state agencies which are applicable to the development ie the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality
But I think Lucinda's concern is that
In this unique section, it's only calling out the power generation
receiving a special use permit, just making it, perhaps it's duplicative, but I think
the language that they're required to get a special use permit is duplicative. It's
just making it clear that you are seeing that as a distinct project away from the data center
itself. And so just to make that clarification that any power generation has to obtain federal
and state permits as required by law.
I think we started this meeting off by saying simpler is better. And I'm not arguing against
to Laura but I think it does make sense to put it just reiterate put it in there
again like Lucinda said right in that paragraph so want to change and we might
we might have to change that in our commercial section too in that way and
I've said it times before we need to be consistent with what we do and just add
that verbiage any state and federal permit required Lucinda howtians that's
That's what I was going to say.
If you decide to do that, just do it consistently throughout.
So what language are you kind of playing around with?
Say that again.
What kind of language are you kind of playing around with for that one, to add in?
I think it would read, any power generation associated with a data center is required
to attain its own special use permit and any state or federal permits that are required.
Just a clarification on that. So we know that next era.
Josh, say your name.
Josh Martinez. Next era is going to be generating power. Also there's going to be best systems
and these data centers are making themselves in such a way to where they're separating
themselves as separate entities just like the digital five nine group over there. They
themselves. Now if they're using power there are they gonna have to get another
permit also instead of just borrowing the power for them because they are
being tied together? I think the permits for the power that's generated
associated with a data center. So if they if they're you're stating that if they
get power over here from them that they're gonna have to get another
permit. It's not it's if it's generated on the site if they're buying power from
our local REA that's not generated on the site.
So, but the power generation if they're getting it from the windmills is that or best?
That's not generated on the site.
If it's generated on the site.
Is there subcontracting power, is that what you're saying?
I'm just getting clarification, that's all we're known.
Can somebody else chime in here?
Would that help you out if it said any power generation generated on any power generated
on site. Well I just wondering if that permits gonna have to get if you're
gonna have to get it because sometimes you're not gonna they're not gonna
produce all their power you know I'm saying they're gonna go somewhere else
to get power is that it gonna be a separate permit? No that's that's not
what we're talking about. Okay I'm just clarifying it's okay. By the way we are
out open for public comment right now. I have a motion on the floor.
I think you are for public comment. Okay. My bad. My bad. Come on, Milo.
So first of all, I was going to say that I think that if it was added into the regulations
that the power generation specified on line three,
or bullet point three, that is,
it should be specified as onsite,
so that there's not more confusion about that.
Like any onsite power generation associated
with the data center is required to obtain
its own special use permit.
How does that end, you guys?
I don't think that this is saying that if we don't use your microphone.
I think this is saying that if I understand it right, if the data center comes in and
wants to build it here, they need to get a special use permit.
If a solar facility comes in, they need to have a special use permit.
This is not talking about the same.
Because if the data center comes in and has the data center and its own power generating
in the same facility, that's all going to be in one special use permit.
This is saying, in my thinking, this is if in that acreage we did, if they come in and
they want to put a data center and they want to put a solar deal and they want to put a
battery storage deal, they need to have three permits.
And that's what this is supposed to be saying, I believe.
The way I read it.
Then could the regulations be modified
so that that's stated more clearly?
I think it is there.
It's the way you're trying to, like he said,
I think it is already saying that.
We don't need to complicate it anymore.
If the Wheatland REA sells the data center power, they're going to have all their own
permits already.
So they don't need to get a special use permit.
Bill, I'm mostly just concerned that if another planning and zoning board was to come in,
and they didn't know all of the stuff that you had talked about, and they didn't spend
the time to go back and listen to these videos and hear the precedent that any power generation
associated with the data center actually refers to what the data center builds on its own
property as opposed to anything that they buy from other providers of power.
I think that it would be in the best interest of the county and in the best interest of
the board of county commissioners and the board of planning and zoning commission that
a clause be added in, not clause but extra verbiage be added in on bullet point three
that says any power generation located on the site of the data center is required to
obtain its own special use permit?
I can get behind that.
And I think that's kind of what we've been talking about.
I think that's a very good point, Milo, and I think it should say any power generation
associated with the data center.
Let me back up.
Any power generated on site. Yeah that that's associated with the data centers were to obtain its own special use permit.
The only problem that I see with that I understand what he's trying to say I and I think that there's a good chance of very good possibility that that verbiage could be changed.
The power generation is different than hooking up to REA.
REA would be like just having your house line run.
That's not power generation.
I see where you're going and I think clarity,
it needs a little polishing probably.
But if you put on site, the data centers are going
to be divided off.
Those data centers land.
And the intention is that data centers,
that 500,000 acres is purchased outright.
The power generation locations are not necessarily
on the project site.
They are off of the transferred land.
They might remain on leased land.
That would be my concern of limiting.
Power generation associated, if they're hooking into REA,
they're not generating that power, they're hooking in.
But if they put a gas line, a gas, a coal factory or a solar or a wind, those are power
generations directly for the data center.
But I think if a data center is going to generate their own power, we're going to have it covered
in the special use permit for the data center.
So we don't need to have, if it's all tied together, we're going to cover it all in one special use permit.
This is saying, in my mind, this is saying if they're going to have two deals, they're going to have a data center and they're going to have a gas power generation,
they need to have their own special use permit.
Even if it's the same company, they've still got to have two different deals.
Yes.
Okay, thank you. So. No, I think we'd be too limiting to put on site because the site for
the data center might just be that thousand acres. That's the site. Or if they're dividing
this up in industrial park, that's the site for the data center. I think broader is better.
somebody can also apply for a variance if we have that,
if they believe that their power,
that there's a problem with that statement at this time.
But again, refining the language,
I understand what Milo's saying,
but I also think that the power generation
associated with the data center,
again, it excludes like REA where they're just,
it's a plug and play where they're running a line.
Okay, so perhaps could the code app be changed then to any power generation constructed explicitly
to power a data center or something to that effect?
Would that perhaps be more suitable with the board?
Yeah, power generation and power storage.
That's a very good point there.
Any power generation that is constructed explicitly to power the, or to, or for the needs of the
data center, similar to that effect, power generation or power storage has to be, or
is required to obtain its own special use permit.
Sorry, I know that was a bit broken up, but I was sort of just thinking as I, talking
Here's my thought.
Any thoughts up here?
He's asking us a question.
I think we could add and or storage to that sense.
Yeah, I would be fine with that.
That sounds fine.
Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, that sounds fine.

Because then it just, if storage isn't included, then it excludes storage.
If storage is included in the project, then it includes storage.
I think that's good.
We did a separate special use permit for the best.
It's not, I think it's great.
Any power generation and or power storage that is constructed for the needs of the data center are required to obtain their own special use permits.
Yeah.
Thank you Laura that sounds fun.
Well yeah and the permits we already added that one in.
Yeah.
I think we still added that in.

Any other public comment?
Katherine Stevens, so let me look at what note this what point this is under
7.05.060 farther we're down the notification to property owners shall
include those within one mile radius of the properties boundaries. I do think
That should be increased
Because the the scope the scale rather of data centers can be so huge
That I think it warrants
Notifying property owners that are further out you guys could decide if you wanted it to be you know
Five miles three miles two miles, whatever, but I think it should be greater than one mile at that point. Yeah, there it is
Not that you guys can see that one but so let me just interject real quick that
Started out as a quarter of a mile and we need to remember that these are for all industrial
This is all industrial zone land
And it used to be just a quarter mile and some places in this
Condition in our rules and regulations. It's only adjacent landowners like in a rezone only
Adjacent landowners received notifications. So I went up from a quarter mile to one mile radius
this, that's where that number came from and where it was at.

My other thought is, so would it be under 7, I feel like this is repeated, 7.10.000 is
after, like if you scroll down, and it's specific again
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Test.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay, if we could reconvene in about one minute, one minute.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Oh, there she is.
Ms. LaRue, are you ready?
I wasn't going to fire you.
Okay, we're going to reconvene and move on.
No, we're still in public comment.
And Marty, just so the listening public online knows, we had a little technical glitch,
Mike's went off. Thanks for everybody's patience but it's back on now.
Alright we're good to go. Please sign in, say your name, we're good to go.
I just, I want to talk to Catherine real quick. So I just wanted to, for what
you're saying, so also we have a section that says use is allowed with special
use permits and some of these items require restrictions on noise and light
of waste products, commercial slaughterhouses,
mineral production processing facilities, crushing plants,
rendering plants, cement manufacturer,
fertilizer manufacturer, tanneries,
commercial junkyards, recycling salvage.
So all of those would have limitations just
on their special use permits regarding lighting
of the facilities and the sound.
So just so you know that those, some of these are very loud
and do require limitations, limitations of operations
of hours and stuff like that too.
It would be more like what you were talking about with the noise and etc. I see is putting as a special special use condition
Just because of working only in industrial classification and it has a very very broad umbrella
So that's all yeah, that makes perfect sense
I just think I think it would benefit the county to have a little section of data center regs
I don't think it would be a downside at all
So I would ask you to consider that for a future maybe for your next meeting or something
have citizen involvement that would be meaningful and helpful to the county.
Thank you, Catherine.
Theresa Baker.
I wanted to speak about special use permit for all the water wells.
If this all goes through and it's all permitted, will you protect the people around, like in
they spoke about earlier, is that somewhere?
Because I haven't really read any of this.
That was one concern.
And another concern I have, after Kayla mentioned
industrial park, do you guys have definitions,
the difference between an industrial park
versus just something being industrial zone, for example?
Because it's my understanding, if something's
in an industrial park, there aren't as many,
or whatever, or you just take care of all of that
with special use permits?
So those are my questions to you.
And I think I can answer the first one.
The county does not administer water, period, state.
That's all through the state.
So that's gonna answer that one.
We can't regulate anybody's water.
That's not our job.
State Water Engineer Brandon Gebhardt, he's from here.
that's in charge of that agency. So the Goshen County people need to get in
touch with him? Anybody can get in touch with him. He's listed on the website.
State engineer for water. Okay. Okay and the second part of your question we do
not have a differential between industrial park and industrial. It's all
the same in your minds? Okay thank you. Also in regard to the industrial park I
Have been informed by another County planner that in certain instances with an industrial park
Classification or plat subdivision whenever called actually the state of Wyoming certain agencies. They are accountable to so which is not us. So
doesn't have any say over the water,
do they have the right to monitor?
I don't think they do, Mort.
I think that would be the state.
I think the state would have to get involved.
No different than they monitor my irrigation wells,
my domestic wells,
Bill's domestic, that's the state agency.
They'll drill, they will drill monitoring holes
if they're asked or if they seem necessary.
they're locked, no one can get in them, they are monitored through the state only.
Okay. I guess that answers my question then.
And that's to my knowledge.
Because the water use is going to become a problem.
And that's going to be administered by the state.
To how much and where they can pump or even if they can drill.
You know, I think it's, I don't know this for a fact,
Bill might help me out here.
I don't think they're allowing any irrigation wells
in this area, period.
So they're already pretty tightly on their permits for wells.
So there again, it's not for this board to say they can
or can't drill a well, that's going to be up to the state.
You have to file for a well permit to drill a well.
Oh, I absolutely, I know that.
But there's designations on the wells, correct?
There are agriculture wells, residential wells,
and that sort.
So is there a industrial designation for wells?
I'm going to assume there is, but I really
don't know that for a fact.
But I would say yes.
OK, and we can only hope that the state will monitor such.
Yes, sir.
Well, I think they will, because they monitor us
on our irrigation wells and our stock wells and stuff.
I think they will. Pardon me, but you don't have the money that the data centers have.
Yeah, and more to my feeling about it, if a data center or some usage is coming about,
it would be up to the adjacent landowners to kind of develop a baseline where their
static water is in their wells. You know, George Gamlin sent us some information. It's
going to cost him around $40,000 to do some permitting for his wells. But to me, a developer
should be part of that process to establish a baseline so they can operate within that.
You know, they can draw down. It'd probably have to be with the state. But in my mind,
they need to be part of that because they're affecting the area with whatever use they're
And this is why they need to be monitored. Mm-hmm. And I think that can go right through the state of Wyoming
Well, let's just hope that the state lives up to that. Yeah
Any other public comment on this section
Any other
At this time I'll close it to public comment. Oh
Sorry Lucinda I
So you got to three one two three. Listen to how chins. Okay, so you're talking about
Jay's point great point
Monitoring should be done ahead of time
Can you just write that sentence in your special use permit that a data center would be required?
To get that to pay for that monitoring. I
Don't think I don't think you could because my opinion that would be
We're not monitoring water today and we're in a drought.
How do you forecast a drought?
I mean, five years ago, if we knew this was coming,
we'd have been monitoring our water five years ago.
You can't.
And just because, now this is my opinion only,
just because the data center comes two years from now
and the drought persists, who's to say the drought
caused the well to go dry or the data center?
That's really hard to prove.
No, but I mean, he was talking about George Gamblin
having to spend $40,000 of his own money, wouldn't it be nice if the data center could
pay for that for the surrounding people that are close to it? That's all.
Jay, handle that. One more thing on the water. I think that they should, Josh Martinez, by
way. They should establish a baseline if they're going to be there or have water
or wells or tie to wells. I think that they should put a baseline or least
established to know where the water is at for our city so that we know where
we're working from and if they do bring in water or they take water out from
somewhere like to know where and where they're putting it and if they're
filtering that water or bringing it back what are they doing I think we should
as well for us.
Commissioner meeting, I appreciate the input.
That's what it's about.
We need input.
You know, sometimes we don't take all that input and incorporate it in, but I think it
gives everyone something to think about.
and voicing their opinion.
Water's pretty critical, there's no doubt about that.
But I think we can partner with whoever,
a developer, the state of Wyoming,
to come up with a plan to responsibly develop something.
And I think that's kind of what we need to do.
Rick Kromp. Now, there is a way to measure that water, the aquifers and stuff. DEQ can
probably do it. And I was looking at a few years ago, seeing the Colorado River, and
it had a whole bunch of water. I mean, that thing is huge. But they measured that thing
They had these strings or cables across there.
They could tell within two inches if it went down or up.
And there's a lot of water coming down that Colorado River.
And the same thing goes with these wells around here.
Those guys are drilling them wells.
They have to monitor them things and they put a license,
a tag on your well to see how far it's went down
or come up or whatever.
I just want to throw that out there.
Thank you.
Okay, any other public comment on this section?
Yeah, I was just going to say to actually, I forgot who made the point about the water
and how George Gamblin is going to have to spend money to get a map of his well and everything.
I do think that it would be right to put that somewhere in the regulations, maybe not here,
but somewhere in there, because a private citizen shouldn't be forced to pay a lot of
money for something that they don't, well, for something that they didn't ask for, you
know, like, he didn't ask for a data center to be here, but he would still have to pay
that much money to get his well mapped out and surveyed and everything.
So I think it would be wise to put somewhere in there that the corporation that's developing the data center or project or whatever has to pay the entire cost of any of any provable and verifiable incommuniences such as well surveying that are inflicted upon surrounding landowners.
Thank you.
Thank you, Milo.
I just had a question.
If you could read just above that, the Section 7.05.030 removal of note, could you just read
that again, please?
For me, it went by pretty quick.
Thank you.
Okay. So in the original the note so it has to say section 7.05.03.0 the note that regarding
uses allowed with special use permits including but not limited to the note that I believe
removed that I suggested removing is note projects in existing industrial districts which are underway prior to adoption of these
regulations do not require a special use permit to develop.
It's in the original.
Page 28 of the existing.
Right there right near the bottom of the page.
The reasoning behind this is as we do have industrial
Zone land currently in the county not a lot of it, but it's there and I think remove I won
This is a way for people to skirt around a special-use permit and why would why would we want to leave me even the slightest?
hole open
For that so
Did that answer your question
Okay. Any other public comment? Any other? Last chance. Lucinda, you in? Okay. I'm gonna
close it to public comment right before the board for further discussion.
Go ahead. Tell them.
We are not making a motion on the section right now, are we? We decided we would...
I think we're going to add some verbiage at the end, like we did in the last section,
but since we have to go back now, because we wanted to be consistent with what we did
and amend the motion that we made in Chapter 6. We're going to move on, but we are going
to add that part that we added to Chapter 6 into Chapter 7 right at the end of the 7.10.000
that we added in Chapter 6, but we'll come back so we don't have to go back and maybe
amend another motion, because the public input has been good. And if we wait until the end,
up and get it all in one stroke.
Is that what you're getting at Bonnie?
Yes.
Okay with that we're gonna move in to chapter eight.
Chapter eight is the ranching agricultural
and mining a ram districts.
So on page 31 there was some minor typos,
residential developments and commercial sites,
all the unincorporated areas of the county
designated as ranching agricultural and mine.
It should be mine mining lands not mined lands.
Then on page 33 we would just add eight dash zero five dash zero six zero data
centers and then on page 34 we would add on the subsurfaces record storage
Excluding data centers because data centers can and are
Can qualify for sub surface record storage so that would exclude those out and then in section 8 0 5 0 2 0
Especially use permits we would add data centers and then say see section 8 0 5 0 6 0 whichever and then we go
To what we've already been covering for
industrial and commercial.
So right now I would say take what we just went over
with the commercial, no the industrial,
but in regards to the second bullet point,
we do need to, I believe, include and or may be required
to be rezoned to industrial because we are now out of
the industrial zoned land.
And that's it for that chapter.
Any public comment on that section?
Milo Stevens, I was just going to ask, what does subsurface recordings mean farther up
there?
I mean, I noticed it's not a huge issue, but I was really curious about that.
I had to look it up.
Subsurface record storage.
Somebody who might be a little older than I am in Milo.
I don't have to look it up again.
It says subsurface record storage involves placing physical archives, digital media,
or core samples deep underground, frequently 150 to 650 feet below the surface, typically
inside stabilized limestone or salt formations.
That's literally off of AI on Google.
So yeah, but when I did cross reference reading that,
can data centers be considered subsurface record storage?
The answer was a resounding yes.
Okay, thank you.
You're welcome.
Any other public comment?
Sorry, I just found my notes.
So when I went to the meeting in Laramie County a couple weeks ago on their data centers,
they talked a lot about a PUD.
Have we looked into that at all?
I haven't as much.
I'm asking.
I don't know.
Talked about what?
It's called a PUD.
So it was a planned unit development.
And that's what they used for like their switchgrass project is what Gunnar told us.
and it's basically like an all-inclusive master plan.
So we use SUPs, my understanding from Laramie County,
because they've done this, is that the reason why
they went to this plan to unit development plan
instead of a special use permit is because
special use permit is for each individual,
whatever they're doing at that time.
So it may be the data center.
And then if they have, like my note said,
if they have a power plant and then battery storage,
like each of those requires a special use permit.
So they're coming in and stacking multiple
on top of each other, where the PUD,
the planned unit development ones,
are more of a comprehensive, it's a master plan
for what's gonna happen on that land all at one time.
I haven't looked into it a ton since that meeting.
I've been busy with other things,
I don't know if that was something that Laura maybe
had talked to the Laramie County Planning and Zoning about,
because we talk a lot about SUPs, and I do too,
and I think that's a good goal,
but these comprehensive plans is what Laramie County
is saying has worked better than what they were doing prior.
So I don't know if that's anything we've looked at.
Do you think it gives them more discretion, or less?
Yes, because it requires them to give us
plan up front.
And so you know what their master plan is because they have
to provide it all at one time.
Where if they get a special use permit and they build these
data centers and they put it out there and then they add
later and they come and say, well we need more power, we need
to build our own power plant.
And then our hands are kind of sort of tied because we're
like, well if we don't let them do it, then we're stuck with
this giant project out there that's unfinished and, you
is good and so these master plans make them provide all the details up front. Is my understanding?
Am I incorrect, Laura? No. Incorporating PUDs is not a bad idea. They have a lot more industrial
well, the county portion does still have a lot more industrial. They are not a bad idea.
It would be a new chapter in the rules and regulations which is not a bad idea. I have
single entity in the Planning Department.
It's been a lot to even do the condition,
like the adjustments here, time-wise.
But it is definitely something that I would like to look
into and have thought about looking into for Platt County.
We have a reserve chapter 11,
which might be a great place for these,
but it would be something that I would
take what Larabie County has,
go through that and make it applicable to Platt County,
be a good jumping off point to do that.
They are, it's not a bad idea.
My understanding was it's kind of its own zoning
classification specifically for data centers.
Instead of saying that data centers are industrial,
they're industrial but they have to have this PUD.
And then from a PUD you can also require SUPs.
They use PUDs for their solar also and their wind.
Solar wind, yeah.
They use it for massive projects
Yeah.
So sorry.
I know that I maybe should have said that earlier,
but I just found my notes on it because I couldn't remember
what it was called.
And I honestly haven't been able to do enough research on it
in the last two weeks since we went to the meeting.
But it appears like that's how we can maybe
regulate some of these a little bit stronger.
Maybe not regulate, but I think the people that are here
people like myself even, I would like to see that.
I would like to see an overall plan of what it's gonna look like.
I guess in my opinion, I wouldn't view that being the first line of defense.
I mean, I wouldn't disapprove an application or not approve an application.
But I would like, maybe now at this point since we rezoned that and
when they bring us, if they ever do bring us an application for a data center.
I think it would be more transparent to everybody
in the county to see what might take place.
Yeah, my notes were very minimal
because I was trying to write while listening the other day
but I have that it was a comprehensive,
all inclusive master plan.
So they have five, I think, zoning classifications
and that is basically one of them
and that's what they use for their big data solar,
like their big industrial changes basically.
So I was just curious.
Along that note though, I mean, I've
been involved with the master plan for the irrigation
district.
Just because you have a master plan, believe me,
doesn't believe that it's the direction it's going to go.
There are many ways that the master plan gets,
Yeah, so but I think that would be worse looking into so within their pud's they also have cup's and
Their conditional use permits are equivalent to our special use permits with conditions
So those are actually incorporated also and then they have the mo use
which I
Don't remember the exact acronym acronym what it stands for the gen the gist of that is is where they can deal they can
communicate directly with the applicant maybe to get like they are getting a road built the
applicant to do their project is upgrading an existing county road using 12 million dollars of the applicants money and
Then Laramie County is on the hook for potentially 1.2 or 1.5 million if there's overages needed
And that's part of their pud
CUP, MOU.
Anyway, so there's a lot of acronyms out there,
but they do use the PUDs, the planning and developments,
and incorporated with what we would incorporate that
with our special use permits,
and then I am also looking about the MOUs,
which, sorry, I can't remember the acronym,
incorporating those in Platte County as well.
So I will get a copy of those,
and they're probably, I mean, you could go to
Laramie County Planning and Zoning,
and I believe you can find the rules and regulations
they have also, and anybody can, they're public, so.
Bill brought up a good point right there to me.
He said maybe in one of their, in their special use permit,
we just ask them to provide us a PUD.
Yeah.
A plan unit development, just so the people in the county
and us we're more aware of what's actually gonna transpire on the property
knowing full well just because they bring us this map that says here's where
it's gonna be I think we should take note that that's proximity not factual
right I think that their PUDs were more of like you have to provide your overall
knowing that it's probably going to change but then you're not stacking this
special use and this special use and this and all these permits on top of
other because you have this master plan and then if they do go to change it you
have kind of a trickle-down effect and I know I wrote on there that the switch
grass was the I think was what it was called but that was the most recent one
that they used it in and it was like 1,700 acres or something that they
built on and that was the most recent one that they did this PUD on so maybe
be worth taking a look at. Just an idea. I think so. Thank you. Any other public comment
on this section? Milo Stevens. Tequila's point, I think that it would be really, really good
to have a master plan shown by the company, site layer four, of the data center, for instance,
well, I mean, not for instance, but sort of as a precedent for this, back in, I think
it was August of 2024, next year I did an event at the Chugwater High School where they
had all these company representatives that you could talk to where they had big, like,
they had big graphs of what it would look like, where it would be, all that stuff.
And I do think that even if that even if like a public event wasn't specified by the regulations
Having a master plan be specified that would be able to be viewed by the entire County as public record
Would be very prudent that way the entire County can know and
have a and
well potentially have input on
How the data center can be constructed or made to better fit the will of the general County?
the general rule of the county, sorry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Anyone else?
Anyone else?
This time, I'll close it to public comment,
bring it before the board.
Any discussion?
Are you all in deep thought?
Yeah, I'm good with the changes we've made, and I can see that, you know, like the data
We keep that consistent with ranching and industrial.
So I'm good with the changes we've made.
And adding in the verbiage that we stuck in chapter six
and chapter seven and chapter eight.
Yep.
Not the verbiage but under section eight,
that's zero five, zero six, zero.
And then under six 10 zero zero zero.
That was chapter six.
And then eight.
Just so we're consistent with what we've done.
So I would entertain a motion if there is no further discussion.
I will make that motion to approve those changes.
I have a motion on the floor to approve the changes.
In your motion, and never mind, it's going to have to be its own motion to amend Chapter
6.
Never mind.
This is a motion for Chapter 7 and 8.
And, oh, let me interrupt.
So there were some other minor changes in seven and eight in addition to that last section
I will need you to address those or accept them as presented or something or deny them whichever way
I think please you accept. Yeah, I'll accept those changes that were made
And include that in my motion
I'll second it
Have a motion on the floor to approve
Chapter seven and eight and
The other exclusions and or additions that we made along the way any further discussion
Hearing none all those in favor signify by saying aye aye all opposed carried
Now we need to go back and revisit chapter six
That's what I think.
The only change is to add in any state and federal permit, correct?
And Kayla's.
to reflect the same verbiage as approved in Section 805060 data centers?
So moved.
He's going to ask you to reread that.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah, what she said.
I'll make a motion to amend our motion for Chapter 6 with the changes or to include
the same verbiage as Chapter 8.
In section, so you have to specify the section.
So amend the changes.
is amend Chapter 6 so that Section 610-000 Data Center reflects the same verbiage as
approved in Section 8-0506-0 Data Centers.
in section 8 chapter no it was chapter 8 section 8 5060 okay we're good okay okay
I'll second that any further discussion all those in favor signify bank saying
I all opposed carried I
Do have one I had mentioned Malcolm, I'm a knee jet for the
Came to light after rereading the regulations chapter 3 and the original regulations Malcolm, I don't I didn't prevent
Page 16
The bottom of the page right there, oh there you go
The sentence the last paragraph on there just above section three zero five zero two zero administrative procedures
The Planning Office shall allow the new allowed use without
Requiring any special use permit and will maintain the record of the new allowed use. I would like to get that removed
And you're on chapter 3 bottom of page 16 correct? Correct. I highlighted it I believe
Page 16, yeah.
Yeah I think that needs to be taken out because if I read that right you have the authority
to do whatever you want.
That's what I see.
I'm not an attorney though.
I think that's a bad thing.
If everybody reads, I can read it out loud, but if you look at right above their C, the
purpose of rezoning is to change the zoning of the land and allow uses specifically allowed
in a land use district.
The purpose of a special use permit is to authorize a use which is regulated in a land
use district and may include multiple family occupation in either separate accessory structures
or incorporated within the business structure
for property, owner manager, families, and employees.
And you continue reading.
When new allowed uses are approved for land development,
the new use may be documented and an action
by the commissioners may require the new use
to be incorporated in the next revision
of the Platt County Planning and Zoning Rules and Regulations,
including public review.
The documentation of the new allowed use
shall be forwarded to the Planning Office.
shall allow the new allowed use without requiring any special use permit and will maintain the
record of the new allowed use.
We are doing the top portion of that section, of that paragraph.
We are trying to be ahead of the curve with data centers by incorporating them into our
rules of regulations.
But that last sentence to me says that once we put them in there, and there are things
that technically a special use permit
could possibly be waived.
And I think that opens up the county for a lot.
At this time I'll open up to public comment
on that particular statement.
If there's any public comment.
Any public comment?
Anything to keep us in completely power and control without these big corporations running
over us or saying anything, I think we should have the most control and be able to stop
anything at any point in time.
So I think if they're going to do anything new or try to do something more, they need
to come back to you guys and find out what's up.
That's it.
I just want to comment that I would appreciate that last sentence being taken out.
That is too much control in one area.
And totally unrelated, when you have new businesses coming in,
not new businesses, when you have major changes in an area,
like let's say the oil came into Alaska and all of the citizens
of that state benefited from that.
Oil in Oklahoma, all the citizens benefited from that.
I understand the financial benefits to a county
But that doesn't, unless I need the ambulance because I jumped off the step and broke my
hip, I don't see that this is benefiting me in any way.
And so I just wanted to say that I think you would get a lot more positive reaction from
these things if there was a way for everyone to benefit from it, other than just a new
tax base.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Any other public comment?
Well, I suppose you guys can't say you're surprised.
Milo Stevens.
So all I was going to say is I would definitely support you guys removing the last sentence
of what would that be?
Section 305-19?
305-010.
Right.
Thank you.
That the planning office shall allow the new allowed use without requiring any special
use permit and will maintain the record of the new allowed use.
Please remove that.
That would be really great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Anyone else?
Anyone else?
Okay, at this time I'll close it to public comment, bring it before the board for further
discussion.
If there is no discussion, I would entertain a motion.
I guess just me mouthin' off again, but I think you can see with our planning and zoning
rules, when we find something that does not apply, they're changeable.
Same way with the new ones we'll do.
So it's kind of a living document, I guess I'd want to say.
So I will move to remove that last sentence.
I have a motion on the floor to strike the sentence,
the last sentence of paragraph C in section 3.05-010.
Do I have a second?
I'll second that.
And seconded.
Any further discussion?
All those in favor signify by saying aye.
All opposed.
Carried.
I think with that.
We're good.
Malcolm at this point.
Will there be an advertisement for the Board of County Commissioners meeting on the proposed
changes to the rules and regulations.
Yeah.
So the earliest.
If.
And there's a lot of ifs.
If the facilities are available if the paper is able to get it in the earliest that the
commissioners could meet would be October 7th.
But again there's a lot of caveat there but I'm gonna soon as I leave here make some phone
calls and try to get something scheduled.
Thank you and as we have done in the past you'll just put this on the front page of
the official website for black counting correct. Yeah it goes it in that
newspaper and then it'll go on the website as well. Okay entertain a motion
to adjourn. We're adjourned.
